README.md, before:

﻿<h1 align="center">
    <a href="https://github.com/ayaanhossain/ShareDB/">
        <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ayaanhossain/ShareDB/master/logo/logo.svg?sanitize=true"  alt="ShareDB" width="260" class="center"/>
    </a>
</h1>

<p align="center">
	<a href="https://github.com/ayaanhossain/ShareDB/actions">
	    <img src="https://github.com/ayaanhossain/ShareDB/workflows/build/badge.svg"
	     alt="CI-badge">
    </a>
	<a href="https://codecov.io/gh/ayaanhossain/ShareDB">
		<img src="https://codecov.io/gh/ayaanhossain/ShareDB/branch/master/graph/badge.svg?token=syTKRG9H8O"
		 alt="codecov-badge">
    </a>
	<a href="https://pypi.org/project/ShareDB/">
		<img src="https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/ShareDB"
		 alt="version-badge">
	</a>
	<a href="https://pypi.org/project/ShareDB/">
	    <img src="https://img.shields.io/pypi/pyversions/ShareDB"
	     alt="python-badge">
    </a>
    <a href="https://img.shields.io/badge/os-Linux-9cf">
	    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/os-Linux-9cf"
	     alt="os-badge">
    </a>
	<a href="./LICENSE">
	    <img src="https://img.shields.io/pypi/l/ShareDB"
	     alt="license-badge">
    </a>
</p>

<p align="center">
  <a href="#sharedb-in-action">ShareDB in Action</a> •
  <a href="#installation">Installation</a> •
  <a href="#license">License</a> •
  <a href="#contributing">Contributing</a> •
  <a href="#acknowledgements">Acknowledgements</a> •
  <a href="https://github.com/ayaanhossain/ShareDB/blob/master/docs/API.md">API</a>
</p>

`ShareDB` is a lightweight, **persistent key-value store** with a **dictionary-like interface** built on top of [LMDB](https://symas.com/lmdb/). It is intended to replace a python dictionary when

 1. the key-value information needs to **persist locally** for later reuse,
 2. the data needs to be **shared across multiple processes** with minimal overhead, and
 3. the **keys** and **values** can be (de)serialized via **msgpack** or **pickle**.

A `ShareDB` instance may be opened simultaneously in children, for reading in parallel, as long as a single process writes to the instance. **Parallel writes made across processes are not safe**; they are not guaranteed to be written, and may corrupt instance. `ShareDB` is primarily developed and tested using **Linux** and is compatible with both **Python 2.7 and Python 3.6 and above**.

### `ShareDB` in Action
```python
>>> from ShareDB import ShareDB           # Easy import
>>> print(ShareDB.__version__)            # Check version
1.1.4
>>> myDB = ShareDB(path='./test.ShareDB') # Store ShareDB locally
>>> myDB['Name'] = ['Ayaan Hossain']      # Insert information
>>> myDB.get(key='Name')                  # Retrieve values
['Ayaan Hossain']
>>> # Accelerated batch insertion/update via a single transaction
>>> len(myDB.multiset(kv_iter=zip(range(0, 10), range(10, 20))).sync())
11
>>> 7 in myDB                             # Membership queries work
True
>>> myDB['non-existent key']              # KeyError on invalid get as expected
Traceback (most recent call last):
...
KeyError: "key=non-existent key of <class 'str'> is absent"
>>> myDB.pop(7)                           # Pop a key just like a dictionary
17
>>> list(myDB.multipopitem(num_items=5))  # Or, pop as many items as you need
[(0, 10), (1, 11), (2, 12), (3, 13), (4, 14)]
>>> myDB.remove(5).remove(6).length()     # Chain removal of several keys
2
>>> myDB.clear().length()                 # Or, clear entire ShareDB
0
>>> myDB.drop()                           # Close/delete when you're done
True
```
`ShareDB` methods either return data/result up on appropriate query, or a `self` is returned to facilitate method chaining. Terminal methods `.close()` and `.drop()` return a boolean indicating success.

Please see the `/examples/` directory for full examples of `ShareDB` usage.  Please see the [API.md](./docs/API.md) file for API details.

### Installation
One-shot **installation/upgrade** of `ShareDB` from **PyPI**.
```bash
$ pip install --upgrade ShareDB
```
Alternatively, **clone** `ShareDB` from **GitHub**,
```bash
$ git clone https://github.com/ayaanhossain/ShareDB
```
navigate into repo, and install via `pip`.
```bash
$ cd ShareDB
$ pip install .
```
You can **test** `ShareDB` with **pytest** inside the `/tests/` directory.
```bash
$ cd tests
$ pytest
```
**Uninstallation** of `ShareDB` is easy with `pip`.
```bash
$ pip uninstall ShareDB
```

### License
`ShareDB` (c) 2019-2024 Ayaan Hossain.

`ShareDB` is an **open-source software** under [MIT](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT) License.

See [LICENSE](./LICENSE) file for more details.

### Contributing
Please **discuss** any issues/bugs you're facing, or any changes/features you have in mind by **opening an issue**, following the [Contributor Covenant](https://www.contributor-covenant.org/version/2/0/code_of_conduct). See [COC.md](./docs/COC.md) file for details. Please provide detailed **information**, and code **snippets** to facilitate debugging.

To contribute to `ShareDB`, please **clone** this repository, **commit** your code on a **separate new branch**, and **submit** a **pull request**. Please annotate and describe all **new** and **modified code** with detailed **comments** and **new unit tests** as applicable. Please ensure that modified builds **pass existing unit tests** before sending pull-requests.  For versioning, we use [SemVer](https://semver.org/).

### Acknowledgements
`ShareDB` is maintained by:

 - Ayaan Hossain | [github.com/ayaanhossain](https://github.com/ayaanhossain) | [@bioalgorithmist](https://twitter.com/bioalgorithmist)

`ShareDB` was originally written to meet data analysis needs in [Prof. Howard Salis](https://twitter.com/hsalis)' Lab at [Penn State University](https://salislab.net/).

### API
`ShareDB` API details can be found in the [API.md](./docs/API.md) file.

Commit message:

v2.0.0 - API modernization, bug fixes, and documentation overhaul
Rename public attributes to snake_case (PATH→path, ALIVE→is_alive,
SERIAL→serial, COMPRESS→compress, READERS→max_readers, BCSIZE→sync_threshold,
BQSIZE→pending_writes, MSLIMIT→max_map_size, DB→_db, KEYP/KEYU/VALP/VALU→
_pack_key/_unpack_key/_pack_val/_unpack_val). Change constructor defaults:
readers 100→256, map_size 10**12→None, serial msgpack→pickle.

Bug fixes: setdefault no longer double-packs key/value, _del_pop_from_disk
no longer increments pending_writes on failed deletes, update no longer
double-wraps multiset errors, configparser uses RawConfigParser consistently
in both _store_config and _load_config.

Add pop(key, default), update(other), setdefault(key, default) methods.
Add CLAUDE.md, Notes section in README, _SENTINEL class attribute.
Update copyright to 2019-2026. Reformat with ruff. Expand docstrings to
NumPy style. Update docs/API.md and examples to match new API.

README.md, after:

﻿<h1 align="center">
    <a href="https://github.com/ayaanhossain/ShareDB/">
        <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ayaanhossain/ShareDB/master/logo/logo.svg?sanitize=true"  alt="ShareDB" width="260" class="center"/>
    </a>
</h1>

<p align="center">
	<a href="https://github.com/ayaanhossain/ShareDB/actions">
	    <img src="https://github.com/ayaanhossain/ShareDB/workflows/build/badge.svg"
	     alt="CI-badge">
    </a>
	<a href="https://codecov.io/gh/ayaanhossain/ShareDB">
		<img src="https://codecov.io/gh/ayaanhossain/ShareDB/branch/master/graph/badge.svg?token=syTKRG9H8O"
		 alt="codecov-badge">
    </a>
	<a href="https://pypi.org/project/ShareDB/">
		<img src="https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/ShareDB"
		 alt="version-badge">
	</a>
	<a href="https://pypi.org/project/ShareDB/">
	    <img src="https://img.shields.io/pypi/pyversions/ShareDB"
	     alt="python-badge">
    </a>
    <a href="https://img.shields.io/badge/os-Linux-9cf">
	    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/os-Linux-9cf"
	     alt="os-badge">
    </a>
	<a href="./LICENSE">
	    <img src="https://img.shields.io/pypi/l/ShareDB"
	     alt="license-badge">
    </a>
</p>

<p align="center">
  <a href="#sharedb-in-action">ShareDB in Action</a> •
  <a href="#installation">Installation</a> •
  <a href="#license">License</a> •
  <a href="#contributing">Contributing</a> •
  <a href="#acknowledgements">Acknowledgements</a> •
  <a href="https://github.com/ayaanhossain/ShareDB/blob/master/docs/API.md">API</a>
</p>

`ShareDB` is a lightweight, **persistent key-value store** with a **dictionary-like interface** built on top of [LMDB](https://symas.com/lmdb/). It is intended to replace a python dictionary when

 1. the key-value information needs to **persist locally** for later reuse,
 2. the data needs to be **shared across multiple processes** with minimal overhead, and
 3. the **keys** and **values** can be (de)serialized via **msgpack** or **pickle**.

A `ShareDB` instance may be opened simultaneously in children, for reading in parallel, as long as a single process writes to the instance. **Parallel writes made across processes are not safe**; they are not guaranteed to be written, and may corrupt instance. `ShareDB` is primarily developed and tested using **Linux** and is compatible with both **Python 2.7 and Python 3.6 and above**.

### `ShareDB` in Action
```python
>>> from ShareDB import ShareDB           # Easy import
>>> print(ShareDB.__version__)            # Check version
2.0.0
>>> myDB = ShareDB(path='./test.ShareDB') # Store ShareDB locally
>>> myDB['Name'] = ['Ayaan Hossain']      # Insert information
>>> myDB.get(key='Name')                  # Retrieve values
['Ayaan Hossain']
>>> # Accelerated batch insertion/update via a single transaction
>>> len(myDB.multiset(kv_iter=zip(range(0, 10), range(10, 20))).sync())
11
>>> 7 in myDB                             # Membership queries work
True
>>> myDB['non-existent key']              # KeyError on invalid get as expected
Traceback (most recent call last):
...
KeyError: "key=non-existent key of <class 'str'> is absent"
>>> myDB.pop(7)                           # Pop a key just like a dictionary
17
>>> myDB.pop(99, 'missing')               # Pop with a default for absent keys
'missing'
>>> myDB.update({'x': 100, 'y': 200})    # Update from a dict or iterable of pairs
ShareDB instantiated from ./test.ShareDB/
>>> myDB.setdefault('x', 999)             # Return existing value, or insert default
100
>>> list(myDB.multipopitem(num_items=5))  # Or, pop as many items as you need
[(0, 10), (1, 11), (2, 12), (3, 13), (4, 14)]
>>> myDB.remove(5).remove(6).length()     # Chain removal of several keys
5
>>> myDB.clear().length()                 # Or, clear entire ShareDB
0
>>> myDB.drop()                           # Close/delete when you're done
True
```
`ShareDB` methods either return data/result up on appropriate query, or a `self` is returned to facilitate method chaining. Terminal methods `.close()` and `.drop()` return a boolean indicating success.

### Notes

- `None` is not a valid key or value in `ShareDB`.
- When using `serial='msgpack'`, tuples are deserialized as lists (msgpack does not distinguish between tuple and list).

Please see the `/examples/` directory for full examples of `ShareDB` usage.  Please see the [API.md](./docs/API.md) file for API details.

### Installation
One-shot **installation/upgrade** of `ShareDB` from **PyPI**.
```bash
$ pip install --upgrade ShareDB
```
Alternatively, **clone** `ShareDB` from **GitHub**,
```bash
$ git clone https://github.com/ayaanhossain/ShareDB
```
navigate into repo, and install via `pip`.
```bash
$ cd ShareDB
$ pip install .
```
You can **test** `ShareDB` with **pytest** inside the `/tests/` directory.
```bash
$ cd tests
$ pytest
```
**Uninstallation** of `ShareDB` is easy with `pip`.
```bash
$ pip uninstall ShareDB
```

### License
`ShareDB` (c) 2019-2026 Ayaan Hossain.

`ShareDB` is an **open-source software** under [MIT](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT) License.

See [LICENSE](./LICENSE) file for more details.

### Contributing
Please **discuss** any issues/bugs you're facing, or any changes/features you have in mind by **opening an issue**, following the [Contributor Covenant](https://www.contributor-covenant.org/version/2/0/code_of_conduct). See [COC.md](./docs/COC.md) file for details. Please provide detailed **information**, and code **snippets** to facilitate debugging.

To contribute to `ShareDB`, please **clone** this repository, **commit** your code on a **separate new branch**, and **submit** a **pull request**. Please annotate and describe all **new** and **modified code** with detailed **comments** and **new unit tests** as applicable. Please ensure that modified builds **pass existing unit tests** before sending pull-requests.  For versioning, we use [SemVer](https://semver.org/).

### Acknowledgements
`ShareDB` is maintained by:

 - Ayaan Hossain | [github.com/ayaanhossain](https://github.com/ayaanhossain) | [@bioalgorithmist](https://twitter.com/bioalgorithmist)

`ShareDB` was originally written to meet data analysis needs in [Prof. Howard Salis](https://twitter.com/hsalis)' Lab at [Penn State University](https://salislab.net/).

### API
`ShareDB` API details can be found in the [API.md](./docs/API.md) file.
